### Response

A similar issue was explained in response to [Defect Report #017
Question](issue:0017.07) 7, regarding `size_t`. The relevant citation here is
from subclause 6.1.3.4, page 29, lines 36-37:

> A wide character constant has type `wchar_t`, an integral type defined in the
> `<stddef.h>` header.

The intent of this sentence is to note that a wide character constant has an
integral type. That integral type is the same integral type used to define
`wchar_t` in the header `<stddef.h>`. The sentence imposes no requirement that
this particular definition of `wchar_t` be in scope wherever you write a wide
character constant. It certainly does not suggest that the translator should
honor any other definition of `wchar_t` that may be in scope, as the type for a
wide character constant.

Rather, the sentence suggests that the translator knows what integral type to
assign to a wide character constant. The implementation further knows to define
`wchar_t` within the header `<stddef.h>` as having that same integral type.
Thus, the program has a way of obtaining a name for this type, if it chooses \-
by including the header `<stddef.h>`. But it need not invoke that mechanism just
to assist the translator.

It is an unfortunate, but widespread, practice within the C Standard to use
abbreviated language for describing some types. Thus, subclause 6.1.4, page 31,
lines 5-6 say:

> for wide string literals, the array elements have type `wchar_t`, ...

instead of the more long winded (but clearer):

> for wide string literals, the array elements have the same type used to define
> `wchar_t` in the header `<stddef.h>`, ...

We feel the usage is sufficiently uniform that the meaning intended by the
Committee is sufficiently clear, even as we acknowledge that the words can be
(and have been) misread.

So to put the matter crassly, the translator *does* “just hope for the best and
take a type that makes it feel good,” as you conjectured.
