### Response

The Committee reasserts that the grammar and/or semantics of preprocessing as
they appear in the standard are as intended. We are attaching a copy of the
previous responses to this item from David F. Prosser. The Committee endorses
the substance of these responses, which follow: KR never specified the macro
replacement algorithm to the extent that any such conclusion is possible. The
widest range of implementation choices were present in this area of the
language. The eventual choice of a macro replacement algorithm was one that did
not match any existing implementation, but one that tried to include the
behavior of all major variants. You agree that the C Standard is clear that once
a token is recognized, it is never retokenized unless subjected to a `#` or `##`
operation. The behavior described is that which was chosen by the Committee.
Your proposal would cause, as you note, certain created string literals to
include white space not present in the original text. This runs counter to the
`#` operator's goal of producing a string version of the spelling of the
invocation arguments. The C Standard allows an implementation that uses a
text-to-text separate preprocessing stage the option to use white space as
necessary to separate tokens when it produces its output. However, this
insertion of white space must not be visible to the program. The proposed extra
white space would probably be a surprise to the programmer as well. Finally,
this proposal would require those implementations that have a built-in
preprocessing stage to add extra code to insert white space in special
circumstances. This is counter to the goal of having both built-in and separate
implementations be purely an implementation choice.
