### Response

Before providing detailed answers, we want to provide some clarified
terminology. For any object type `T`, the underlying bytes of the object can be
copied into an array of `unsigned char`:

```c
#define N sizeof(T)
 union aligned_buf {
         T t;
         unsigned char s[N];
         } buf;
 T object;
 .....
         memcpy(buf.s, (const void *)&object, N);
```

The *object representation* of an object consists of the resulting sequence of
`N` objects of type `unsigned char` in the buffer. The object representation
depends upon several features of the implementation such as byte-ordering
(“big-endian,” “little-endian,” etc.), “holes” (i.e., bits within a scalar
object which do not participate in forming the value of the object), and
“padding” (i.e., bits in a non-scalar object which lie between the component
scalar objects or after the last scalar object).

The *value representation* of an object is a sequence of bits structured in a
specific conventional way. The scalar components are listed in their declaration
sequence. Each scalar component is a sequence of bits (the “participating bits”)
arranged in a conventional ordering. The value representation of floating-point
and pointer types is implementation-defined. The value representation of an
integer type is defined as follows: The least-significant bit (the bit which
represents the integer value 1\) is also called the low-order bit or rightmost
bit; the most-significant bit is also called the high-order bit or leftmost bit.
The sign bit (if any) is the leftmost bit.

If all the bits in a scalar object representation participate in the value
representation (i.e. no holes or padding), then the value representation can be
referred to simply as the *representation.* The bits of the value representation
determine a *value,* which is one discrete element of an implementation-defined
set of values. The conventional depiction of an integer value is as a decimal
integer, optionally signed, such as 128 or -1.

Here is an example. Consider a (possibly hypothetical) ones-complement
implementation whose `int` value representation provides one sign bit and 40
integer bits.

```c
    +-+---------------------+
    | |                     |
    +-+---------------------+
     1         40
```

Its object representation provides one sign bit, a hole containing seven
non-participating bits, and 40 integer bits (issues of byte ordering are
irrelevant here):

```c
    +-+------+---------------------+
    | |      |                     |
    +-+------+---------------------+
     1   7        40
```

The value representation containing 41 zero bits designates the value 0:

```c
    +-+---------------------+
    |0|000     ...       000|
    +-+---------------------+
     1         40
```

Depending upon the implementation, the value representation containing 41 one
bits may designate the same value 0, in which case it is indistinguishable from
the other value representation; or it may designate a distinguishable value,
conventionally depicted as -0, which is arithmetically equal to 0 but
distinguishable by bitwise operations.

```c
    +-+---------------------+
    |1|111     ...       111|
    +-+---------------------+
     1         40
```

Now for detailed replies:

a) Footnotes are not normative. The *legality* of a footnote is beyond the scope
of WG14/X3J11.

b) Yes, the footnote is correct.

c) No, there is no such requirement.

d) In view of the discussion above, we assume you mean the following question:
Does the C Standard require that all bits of the object representation
participate in the value representation? For character types, all bits of the
object representation do contribute. See subclauses 7.9.2 (re binary streams)
and 7.11.1 (re string functions) for (indirect) justification. More precisely,
any bits that do not contribute to the value of a character type must not
contribute to the value of any other object type. (Parity bits are an obvious
example.) For other types, the answer is no.

e) In view of the discussion above, we assume you mean the following question:
Does the C Standard require that all possible bit patterns of the object
representation represent numbers? For the type `unsigned char`, the answer is
yes. (And if all values of the type `char` are non-negative, then the answer is
yes.) Otherwise, the answer is no.

f) No, except for the character types as mentioned above.

g) Not applicable, since it is unclear what are the meanings of “bit pattern”
and “value” in the question; see the answer to part (e).

h) Yes, provided there is no other violation of the C Standard.

i) Yes, provided there is no other violation of the C Standard.

j) No. It is not a pure binary system.

k) Yes, except for `SCHAR_MAX == UCHAR_MAX` (which is specifically disallowed),
provided there is no other violation of the C Standard.

l) Yes, provided there is no other violation of the C Standard.

m) Yes, because subclause 6.1.2.5 states that the positive signed integers have
the same representation as the corresponding unsigned integers, and because
signed integers use a pure binary numeration system. The Committee intended to
permit ones complement, twos complement, and signed magnitude implementation.

n) No. There are architectures on which not all bits can be used.

p) Yes, because subclause 6.1.2.5 requires unsigned integers to behave as if a
result “is reduced modulo the number that is one greater than the largest value
that can represented,” and unsigned integers use a pure binary numeration
system.

q) No. The memory occupied by a value of an integer is allowed to exceed the
number of binary digits used to represent the actual value.

r) Yes. See the answer to part (m).

s) No. See the answer to part (q).

t) Not applicable.

u) Yes, the expression must evaluate to 0 or -1.
