### Proposed Committee Response

**Answers to Summary #1**

"Partial preprocessing token" is not itself a technical term; it is merely the
English Language word "partial" modifying the technical term "preprocessing
token". A preprocessing token is defined by the grammar non-terminal
*preprocessing-token* in Subclause 6.4. A partial preprocessing token is
therefore just part of a preprocessing token that is not the entire
preprocessing token.

The statement that "source files shall not end in a partial preprocessing token
or in a partial comment" has two implications. First, a preprocessing token may
not begin in one file and end in another file. Second, the last preprocessing
token in a source file must be well-formed and complete. For example, the last
token may not be a string literal missing the close quote.

**Answers to Summary #2**

Subclause 5.1.1.3 requires a diagnostic to be produced if there is a violation
of any syntax rule or constraint. The syntax for character constants (Subclause
6.4.4.4) and string literals (Subclause 6.4.5) both require that any escape
sequence be well formed according the nonterminal *escape-sequence* (Subclause
6.4.4.4). Thus a diagnostic is required if a character constant or string
literal contains a `\` not followed by the remainder of a valid escape sequence.

Note that a preprocessor token may be a *header-name* in addition to a
*string-literal*. Although a *header-name* has the appearance of a string
literal, it is parsed by a different grammar (Subclause 6.4.7). The syntax for
*header-name* is not violated if a `\` is not followed by the remainder of a
valid escape sequence. Thus, no diagnostic is required. However, if a header
name contains a `\`, the behavior is undefined (Subclause 6.4.7, paragraph 3).

Since the behavior is undefined, the implementation is free to do anything it
wishes. Some possible examples:

* Fail
* Issue a diagnostic
* Treat the `\` as the start of an escape sequence
* Treat the `\` as a literal character

The last alternative is useful if your operating system normally uses `\` in the
names of files.

**Answers to Summary #3**

Before your question can be answered, it is necessary to understand the precise
steps taken in translating a `_Pragma` operator as controlled by the phases of
translation (Subclause 5.1.1.2).

The `_Pragma` operator (Subclause 6.10.9) has an argument that is a string
literal. If any escape sequence in that string literal is not grammatically
well-formed, a diagnostic is required. In the example, the string literal is
syntactically correct, so no diagnostic is required so far.

The `_Pragma` operator is executed during translation phase 4\. Note that escape
sequences in a string are not replaced by the characters that they represent
until translation phase 5\. However, the `_Pragma` operator itself does limited
processing to handle `\\` and `\"` escape sequences (Subclause 6.10.9 paragraph
1), and so when the value of the string literal is retokenized to produce
preprocessor tokens, the result for the example matches the `#pragma` directive
given.

The final answer to your question rests with whether the preprocessor tokens in
the `#pragma` directive require a diagnostic. Subclause 6.10.6 states that a
`#pragma` directive ends in just a list of preprocessor tokens without placing
any requirements on which preprocessor tokens.

Your question then becomes whether the preprocessor token that looks like a
string in the `#pragma` in the example is a *string-literal* or a *header-name*.
If it is a *string-literal*, a diagnostic is required. If it is a *header-name*,
no diagnostic is required, but there is undefined behavior. The choice of which
preprocessor tokens are allowed in a `#pragma` directive is implementation
defined.

Subclause 6.10.9 paragraph 1 states that a `#pragma` causes the implementation
to behave in an implementation-defined manner including the possibility that the
implementation might fail or otherwise behave in a non-conforming manner. The
intent of the committee was that implementations could recognize *header-name*
preprocessor tokens in `#pragma` directives, if the implementation chooses, but
this seems to be contradicted by the two places requiring Technical Corrigenda
below.

### Technical Corrigendum

Change Subclause 6.4.7, paragraph 3, last sentence to:

Header name preprocessing tokens are recognized only within `#include`
preprocessing directives or in implementation-defined locations within `#pragma`
directives<sup>\*)</sup>.

(\* New Footnote): For an example of a header name preprocessing token used in a
`#pragma` directive, see Subclause 6.10.9.

Change Subclause 6.4, paragraph 4, last sentence to:

There is one exception to this rule: Header name preprocessing tokens are
recognized only within `#include` preprocessing directives or in
implementation-defined locations within `#pragma` directives. In such contexts,
a sequence of characters that could be either a header name or a string literal
is recognized as the former.
